.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH QUERY 3TIFF "October 29, 2004" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
NDPICurrentRow,
NDPICurrentStrip,
NDPICurrentTile,
NDPICurrentDirectory,
NDPILastDirectory,
NDPIFileno,
NDPIFileName,
NDPIGetMode,
NDPIIsTiled,
NDPIIsByteSwapped,
NDPIIsUpSampled,
NDPIIsMSB2LSB,
TIFFGetVersion
\- query routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.sp
.BI "uint32_t NDPICurrentRow(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "tstrip_t NDPICurrentStrip(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "ttile_t NDPICurrentTile(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "tdir_t NDPICurrentDirectory(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "int NDPILastDirectory(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "int NDPIFileno(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "char* NDPIFileName(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "int NDPIGetMode(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "int NDPIIsTiled(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "int NDPIIsByteSwapped(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "int NDPIIsUpSampled(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "int NDPIIsMSB2LSB(TIFF* " tif ")"
.br
.BI "const char* TIFFGetVersion(void)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The following routines return status information about an open
.SM TIFF
file.
.PP
.IR NDPICurrentDirectory
returns the index of the current directory (directories are numbered starting
at 0). This number is suitable for use with the
.IR NDPISetDirectory
routine.
.PP
.IR NDPILastDirectory
returns a non-zero value if the current directory is the last directory in the
file; otherwise zero is returned.
.PP
.IR NDPICurrentRow ,
.IR NDPICurrentStrip ,
and
.IR NDPICurrentTile ,
return the current row, strip, and tile, respectively, that is being read or
written. These values are updated each time a read or write is done.
.PP
.IR NDPIFileno
returns the underlying file descriptor used to access the 
.SM TIFF
image in the filesystem.
.PP
.IR NDPIFileName
returns the pathname argument passed to
.IR NDPIOpen
or
.IR NDPIdOpen .
.PP
.IR NDPIGetMode
returns the mode with which the underlying file was opened. On
.SM UNIX
systems, this is the value passed to the
.IR open (2)
system call.
.PP
.IR NDPIIsTiled
returns a non-zero value if the image data has a tiled organization. Zero is
returned if the image data is organized in strips.
.PP
.IR NDPIIsByteSwapped
returns a non-zero value if the image data was in a different byte-order than
the host machine. Zero is returned if the TIFF file and local host byte-orders
are the same.  Note that NDPIReadTile(), NDPIReadEncodedStrip() and
NDPIReadScanline() functions already normally perform byte swapping to local
host order if needed.
.PP
.I NDPIIsUpSampled
returns a non-zero value if image data returned through the read interface
routines is being up-sampled. This can be useful to applications that want to
calculate I/O buffer sizes to reflect this usage (though the usual strip and
tile size routines already do this).
.PP
.I NDPIIsMSB2LSB
returns a non-zero value if the image data is being returned with bit 0 as the
most significant bit.
.PP
.IR TIFFGetVersion
returns an
.SM ASCII
string that has a version stamp for the 
.SM TIFF
library software.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR libtiff (3TIFF),
.IR NDPIOpen (3TIFF),
.IR NDPIdOpen (3TIFF)
