.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992-1997 Sam Leffler
.\" Copyright (c) 1992-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
.\" all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
.\" Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
.\" publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
.\" permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
.\" EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
.\" WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" 
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
.\" OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
.\" LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.if n .po 0
.TH TIFFSTRIP 3TIFF "October 15, 1995" "libtiff"
.SH NAME
NDPIDefaultStripSize, NDPIStripSize, NDPIVStripSize, NDPIRawStripSize,
NDPIComputeStrip, NDPINumberOfStrips \- strip-related utility routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.sp
.BI "uint32_t NDPIDefaultStripSize(TIFF *" tif ", uint32_t " estimate ")"
.br
.BI "tmsize_t NDPIStripSize(TIFF *" tif ")"
.br
.BI "tmsize_t NDPIVStripSize(TIFF *" tif ", uint32_t " nrows ")"
.br
.BI "tmsize_t NDPIRawStripSize(TIFF *" tif ", uint32_t " strip ")"
.br
.BI "tstrip_t NDPIComputeStrip(TIFF *" tif ", uint32_t " row ", tsample_t " sample ")"
.br
.BI "tstrip_t NDPINumberOfStrips(TIFF *" tif ")"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I NDPIDefaultStripSize
returns the number of rows for a reasonable-sized strip according to the
current settings of the
.IR ImageWidth ,
.IR BitsPerSample ,
.IR SamplesPerPixel ,
tags and any compression-specific requirements. If the
.I estimate
parameter, if non-zero, then it is taken as an estimate of the desired strip
size and adjusted according to any compression-specific requirements. The
value returned by this function is typically used to define the
.I RowsPerStrip
tag. In lieu of any unusual requirements
.I NDPIDefaultStripSize
tries to create strips that have approximately
8 kilobytes of uncompressed data.
.PP
.IR NDPIStripSize
returns the equivalent size for a strip of data as it would be returned in a
call to
.IR NDPIReadEncodedStrip
or as it would be expected in a call to
.IR TIFFWriteEncodedStrip .
.PP
.I NDPIVStripSize
returns the number of bytes in a strip with
.I nrows
rows of data.
.PP
.I NDPIRawStripSize
returns the number of bytes in a raw strip (i.e. not decoded).
.PP
.IR NDPIComputeStrip
returns the strip that contains the specified coordinates. A valid strip is
always returned; out-of-range coordinate values are clamped to the bounds of
the image. The
.I row
parameter is always used in calculating a strip. The
.I sample
parameter is used only if data are organized in separate planes (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =2).
.PP
.IR NDPINumberOfStrips
returns the number of strips in the image.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR NDPIReadEncodedStrip (3TIFF),
.BR NDPIReadRawStrip (3TIFF),
.BR TIFFWriteEncodedStrip (3TIFF),
.BR TIFFWriteRawStrip (3TIFF),
.BR libtiff (3TIFF),
.PP
Libtiff library home page:
.BR http://www.simplesystems.org/libtiff/
